Special Education - A Work of Heart
Saturday, July 27, 2013
Liebster Award!
I am so excited to receive my first blogger award! I was nominated for the Liebster Award by Miss, Hey Miss , a first year special education teacher from San Antonio, Texas. Check out her blog!
Liebster is German and means ¡°dearest,¡± ¡°lovely,¡± ¡°cute,¡± ¡°beloved,¡± and ¡°welcome¡±. I've been asked by the person who nominated me to answer a few questions and to share 11 random facts about myself, so here they are:
1.What grade/subject do you teach?    - I teach K-5th grade students with severe and profound disabilities
2.What is your favorite school supply?   - My favorite school supply would have to be Velcro dots! Velcro is a necessity in my classroom! We use many visual supports around the     classroom and Velcro allows me to attach things to any surface.
3.Why did decide to blog?   - I decided to blog because I saw so many great blogs and websites from a variety of teachers, but there is not a lot out there for     teachers of students with significant disabilities. I enjoy exchanging ideas with other educators.
4.How do you decide on blog topics?   - Well, to be honest, I haven't kept up with my blog as much as I would like to at the moment. When I do post, I choose my topics based on     what's happening in my classroom (or my life) at the moment.
5.If you could go back and share one piece of advice with yourself before you began teaching, what would it be?   - One piece of advice I would give myself before beginning this career would have been: Don't sweat the small stuff. Sometimes I can     overanalyze everything! Not only with teaching, but in my personal life.
6.Describe your family.   - My family is amazing! My hubby is the most supportive man. He supports me in everything I do. We don't have children yet. We have been     married for 2.5 years. We love spending time with our families. He loves my family and I love his!  We were blessed with great in-laws. :)
7. Where/What is your dream vacation?   - There are so many places that I would love to vacation, it is hard to choose just one!  Ireland, Scotland, Switzerland, Africa, Tahiti     are all places I would love to visit!
8. What food do you eat most often?   - We eat a lot of potatoes around this house... baked potatoes mostly, but also fried potatoes, mashed potatoes, sweet potatoes, etc.
9. What is your favorite social media site? Why? (Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, Instagram, G+, Flickr,  other, etc.)  - It would have to be Facebook because I love keeping up with my friends and family
10. If you had all the money and all the time in the world, what would you do?  - That's easy!... I would travel the world!
Here are 11 random facts about myself:
1. I played trumpet in high school marching band and in college jazz band.
2. I love animals and can't wait to bring another dog into my life.
3. I volunteered for a summer at an orphanage in Peru and loved it! I can't wait to go back!
4. I'm addicted to reality shows... I'll watch ANYTHING reality (Biggest Loser, Survivor, Amazing Race, Big Brother, Top Chef, Real World,    Real Housewives... yeah, I watch those! Don't judge me!5. I love to travel. This summer my husband and I visited 4 National Parks, including one in Canada, in 9 days. It was a whirlwind, but SO    much fun!
6. I have a metal plate and screws in my ankle! I broke my ankle in 2 places after slipping on water in my classroom!
7. I love taking pictures! I have a gazillion pictures and albums on Facebook.
8. I'm not a very good cook. My husband does most of the cooking for us. He enjoys it.
9. My favorite class at the gym is kickboxing... my favorite machine is elliptical.
10. My husband loves college football and we have season tickets for Auburn Football! War Eagle!11. I love children's books! I can spend hours at a thrift store, sifting through the books to add to my classroom library.
Now it is my turn to nominate other blogs I enjoy for the Liebster Award. Today, I nominate:
Sped-Ventures: A special educator that shares ideas from her classroom. I love following her because she often blogs about extension activities she uses with the Unique Learning System curriculum.
10 Questions for my nominees:
1. What is the best piece of advice you can give to first year teachers?
2. What is your favorite book to read on the first day of school?
3. What is the least favorite part of the teaching profession?
4. Why did you decide to blog?
5. What and where was the last professional conference you attended?
6. Describe your dream vacation.
7. How do you spend your summers off?
8. What is your favorite non-teacher related book?
9. What is one book you would recommend for teachers?
10. What is your favorite holiday in the classroom?
11. What is your favorite inspirational quote?
AND GO!... :)
Here are the rules of Liebster Award:
?1. Link back to the blog that nominated you.
2. Nominate 5-11 blogs with fewer than 200 followers.
3. Answer the questions posted for you by your nominator.
?4. Share 11 random facts about yourself.
5. Create 11 questions for your nominees.
?6. Contact your nominees by commenting on their blog or sending them an email to communicate the nomination.
Posted by
Well we all know?by now that?Google Reader?will be no more in just a?few short hours... Bloglovin' is the place to be!? You can continue to follow me there. Follow my blog with Bloglovin
Posted by
Calendar Time - Morning Meeting
Today I am linking up for the Summer Linky Party over at Sharing Kindergarten .?This week's focus for the Linky Party?is Calendar Time.?I love our morning calendar time (or actually I refer to it as "morning meeting" in my classroom because we do much more than just calendar during this time). It's a favorite for my students too. It is an interactive and fun learning group where we focus on calendar skills, weather, colors and other basic concepts. We pack a lot into our morning meeting each day!? We?touch on a variety of goals/objectives during our morning meeting, including choice making, activating a switch, visual tracking, responding to simple questions, name/picture recognition, following directions, reach/grasp/release of items?and?maintaining attention to task.??
As you read through the descriptions of our morning meeting, keep in mind that my students are non-verbal, some have physical limitations and?most of my?current students?require moderate to maximum assistance to complete tasks.
Below is a picture of my morning meeting/calendar area.? I display everything on the white board and I love this arrangement because it's MAGNETIC! It makes it super easy to grab things on and off the board to show my students up close. I can grab the numbers?from the top?of the board when we are reviewing numbers or grab?the colored?shapes when we are reviewing colors. I can even grab the calendar right off the board to show a student up close. The weather cards on the right hand side are removable as well and they are textured so that my students can "feel" the weather.
???????????????????????????????
Here are some descriptions of a few of the components I use during my morning meeting.? I hope someone finds these helpful.
Good Morning:
We start our morning meeting each day by singing a good morning song. At appropriate breaks in the song I say good morning to each student individually and wait for a response.? Students respond by waving, reaching out to shake my hand or activating a communication device to say 'good morning'.?This gives the students great practice in responding appropriately to greetings.
Communication and Choice Making:
Morning meeting is the perfect time to incorporate choice making. I use a variety of assistive devices during this time, including: Big Macks, Twin Talk, and Cheap Talks (pictured below)
????
???
????
There are numerous ways to use these devices for communication and choice-making during?morning meeting.? Some of the ways I have used them in the past include:?
?- What comes next: I program the Cheap Talk 4 with?morning meeting activities?to be completed that day.? Students are able to set the schedule for?morning meeting?by selecting and "telling" me what they want to do next during our group time.???
?
- Song Choices: Sometimes we sing songs related to our theme for the week.
I give the students a song choice using the devices.- Answer Questions: We use the devices to answer questions during morning meeting: such as how do you feel today, what is the weather like outside, or what day of the week is it?
Attendance/Name Recognition:After singing good morning, we always take attendance and check to see who is here for the day. I have large name cards with each of the student's names. First students select their name from a choice of 2 - 4 cards?(depending on what level they are working on... some?of the names are paired with pictures, others are just the letters).??Then we sing?the Bingo Name Song (sung to the tune of "Bingo.") The student points to each letter of his/her name, while the other students clap the letters. I have 2 paraprofessionals in my room and they assist the other students in clapping while I assist the target student in pointing and/or attending to his/her name.
In this class we have a boy
And Caleb is his name-o
C-A-L-E-B, C-A-L-E-B, C-A-L-E-B
We're glad you're here today!
Calendar:
We review the calendar by first singing a song about the Days of the Week. After the song, I choose a student to recite the days of the week. The students use the I-Pad or Step-by-Step communication device to recite the days of the week. We then review, yesterday was ____, today is ____, tomorrow will be _____.? We also talk about any?upcoming events happening that week (CBI trips, assemblies, specials classes, holidays, etc.) and count down the days to that event.
Color Recognition:
We review our colors every day during morning meeting. I?have several different color songs that we alternate but my favorite is "Rainbow of Colors" by Greg and Steve.? For this song we use colored streamers which I made from an idea?I found on?Pinterest! Before the song?each student chooses a colored streamer.? During the song they wait for their color to be called. When they hear their color named?they hold it up for everyone to see and wave/shake it around.
Counting Poems:For a short counting activity, I use a felt board?with laminated cut-out pieces to?illustrate?a counting?poem. The poem?usually correlates to our theme for that week?or the season.? Students help count during the poem by using a Step by Step communication device or the I-Pad.? We also have some counting songs that the students really enjoy that I rotate throughout the week.
As you can see our morning meeting/calendar time?focuses on very basic skills, but this is what my students currently need. I hope this has helped at least a few ideas for teachers of students with disabilities. I'm looking forward to seeing other ideas shared through the linky party! Thanks for stopping by!
~Liz

